The Tanstack start, a DX optimized full
stack framework that comes with full
document serverside rendering,
streaming, server functions, and
bundling built by Tanner Lindsay, the
man known for brutally frame mogging
Nex.js while it was busy gesture maxing
AI empowerment. React was originally
created in 2013 as a way to let
developers at Facebook, who had been
labeled as gifted children when they
were young, feel better about themselves
after being forced to write jQuery all
day.
>> That's too easy. Its goal was to
simplify the complexities of managing
state in front-end applications. In
2016, it then escaped the browser with
the release of Verscell's Nex.js, a zero
config framework built on top of React
that offered server rendering out of the
box. At first, it was pretty nice. It
taught millions of boot camp grads what
a server was and empowered them to ship
less JavaScript to the client. But over
time, as React itself went through its
own identity crisis, so did Next. This
eventually led to some breaking changes,
some pretty rough security
vulnerabilities, and just overall bad
vibes for the framework. Then last year,
Tanner came along and said, "What if we
could have a React framework that was
type safe server first, highly
performant, but without all the heavy
abstractions?" So that's what he built
and it's called Tanstack Start. Creating
a new project is simple. Just run this
command. From there, you can choose from
a bunch of different configuration
options to start out with. But once you
do that, you'll have an app that comes
out of the box with VEST for testing,
the Tailwind for styling, tanstack
router for routing, and TypeScript with
end toend type safety. If you have logic
that should only run on the server, like
if you want to connect to a database or
work with the file system or environment
variables, you can create a server
function that can be used anywhere in
your app and it'll maintain type safety
across the network. And because start is
built on Tanstack router which uses file
system based routes if you want to add a
new route to your app. You just create a
new file in the routes directory. From
there you can also specify any data that
route needs using a loader. And that
data will be available to the route
before it's rendered. And if you want to
create an API route for handling raw
HTTP requests, you can do that with the
same create file route API but with the
server property. This has been tan stack
start in 100 seconds. If you want to see
more videos like this, let me know what
you want [music] to learn about next in
the comments. Thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next one.